Add Security section (#1014)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/09.5-security/11-product-architecture/05-tenant-cluster.md

---
title: "Tenant Cluster Security"
metaTitle: "Tenant Cluster Security"
metaDescription: "Lorem ipsum dolor"
icon: ""
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

# Overview

Tenant clusters are Kubernetes clusters that Palette deploys for customers. Tenant clusters can be launched in the customer's choice of public or private cloud or bare metal environment. Palette offers complete flexibility and control in designing these tenant clusters through a construct called [Cluster Profiles](/cluster-profiles). 

> Cluster profiles are cluster construction templates. Palette deploys a Kubernetes cluster based on what the profile specifies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Cluster profiles](/cluster-profiles) are cluster construction templates. Palette deploys a Kubernetes cluster based on what the profile specifies.
```

|Layer            |Out of the box Pack | Custom Pack|
|:---------------|:---------|:--------------|
|Operating System |Spectro Cloud Responsibility|Customer Responsibility|
|Kubernetes|Spectro Cloud Responsibility|Customer Responsibility|
|Storage|Spectro Cloud Responsibility|Customer Responsibility|
|Networking|Spectro Cloud Responsibility|Customer Responsibility|
|Add-Ons|Spectro Cloud & Customer Responsibility|Customer Responsibility|

We ensure our out-of-the-box core layer packs are secure. You ensure security for custom packs and add-on packs you bring to Palette. Palette provides defaults for its out-of-the-box add-on layers based on third-party best practices. You have the flexibility to tune the configuration to fit your needs, making security a shared responsibility.

<br />

## Cloud Infrastructure Security

In a public cloud, Kubernetes nodes in tenant clusters are deployed within a logically isolated virtual network that has private and public subnets. The control plane and worker nodes for the Kubernetes cluster are launched in a private network. All ports on the nodes are protected from external access.

> Each tenant cluster has a management agent that runs as a pod. This agent has an outbound internet connection to Palette using static Network Address Translation (NAT) with Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol v1.2 or higher and a hardened cipher suite. The agent periodically reports health, heartbeat, and statistics and connects to Palette's public repository over HTTPS for any out-of-the-box integration packs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each tenant cluster has a management agent that is deployed as a pod. This agent has an outbound internet connection to Palette using static Network Address Translation (NAT) with Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol v1.2 or higher and a hardened cipher suite. The agent periodically reports health, heartbeat, and statistics and connects to Palette's public repository over HTTPS for any out-of-the-box integration packs.
```
